- [Instructor] Now let us add a method in
the BankAccountDao to get the bank account
information for all users.
We'll retrieve that information from
the bank account table, and once that's done,
all the rows that we get out of it,
we're going to make a collection of
bank account bean objects.
Similarly, we'll add another method in the Dao class
which will fetch us the transaction information
for every bank account.
If there are multiple transactions,
all of those rows will be contained in a list of
bank account transaction beans.
Let's head to the IDE.
That's the Dao class.
We have created a data source.
This is the source from which we are going to
retrieve the connection object to make the transactions.
We've already tied up this data source by
a constructor to our Dao class,
so let's add the methods.
The first one will be public.
It will return us a list of bank account beans,
which is this;
getAllBankAccounts.
What are we going to do here is,
we are first going to get the connection object.
That connection object can be retrieved
by means of their data source now.
I'm going to say connection
and take it from the dataSource object,
so dataSource dot ...
There's an API called getConnection that we can call.
Once that is done, then we need to have
few other variables.
One is we need the list of bank accounts.
I'm just going to copy that from line 26
and paste on line 29.
Let's call it accounts
and create a new ArrayList object.
Then we'll also need a bank account instance,
so we'll also create that.
Initially let's set it to null.
Next thing is, let's write a simple statement.
So I'm gonna say Statement,
import that from java.sql,
and get it on the connection object.
So connection.createStatement.
I'm making use of the statement object
basically because it's just a simple select query.
Let's go ahead and say statement.executeQuery.
That's the one.
And what is a query?
Select * from bank_account; that's the table.
And the result of this will be of course
in the form of a result set that we can capture
in its corresponding variable on line number 35.
Next we're going to iterate that set,
so I'll set.next.
What are we going to do?
We're going to take that account object
and instantiate the BankAccount bean.
So for every row coming from the bank account,
we have a new BankAccount bean.
That's what we're gonna do.
And then we need to set the fields to
this bank account from the corresponding columns
that we're going to get from each rule.
So let's do that; account.setAccNumber.
I'm gonna say set.getInt
and the column name, which is acc_number.
Then account.setName,
and that will be a string, acc_holder_name.
The next field is setEmail, so that will be
set.getString, acc_email.
That's the column.
And then the last one is set.AccType,
and that's also a string,
which is acc_type.
Once we do this, let's also take that list
that we created and add this newly-created
bank account object to it.
So when you're done with all of this,
then after the loop, you just have to go ahead
and return this accounts list.
Now that we've written all the code of course,
this is JDBC code, so it is going to
throw you those checked exceptions.
So let's quickly add the try-catch block.
And also make sure that
the variables that you need to access
throughout the method are taken outside.
I'm going to cut lines 34, 35, 36,
and paste them here.
Of course line number 33, which is with respect to
the connection object, that has to go into the try
because if it may throw an exception for SQL,
then we'll have to check it accordingly.
Let's take the return statement from
line number 48, cut it out,
and put at the end of the method on line number 52.
We are ready with the method of getAllBankAccounts.
The next method that we have to add is the method for
retrieving transaction information for every account.
So let's add that method as well.
Let's go down and say public.
What is this going to return?
List of, this time it is going to be
BankAccountTransaction.
We want a list of transactions.
So getTransactionsForAccount,
and the parameter let's say is
the BankAccount object itself.
From there, we can retrieve the account number
and then we can make the query.
The initial step is going to be the same.
We're going to draw the connection object
from the data source,
then we will need a BankAccountTransaction object.
Initially let's set it to null,
and then we'll also have a list of
bank account transactions.
Let's make that.
We'll say transactions = new ArrayList.
Once we say that, we are basically ready with
the starting point for retrieving the information
using the SQL query.
Now we're going to write a prepared statement,
so what are we going to do?
PreparedStatement, get a reference,
and on the connection, call the prepareStatement API.
That will of course demand the query,
so let's add the query.
Select * from bank_account_transaction table this time
where the account number is question mark.
We're going to parse this account number
dynamically to the prepared statement,
and we all know how to do it.
You just have to grab that statement object
and say setInt.
The parameter, it has to start from one,
and the value will be gotten from the account object.
There we go.
Once we do this, we're going to take
a ResultSet object again and make sure that
the results of the query are stored into it.
To execute the query, we say statement.executeQuery.
Next thing that we have to do is
we have to iterate this set.
It's pretty much the same that we've done
for the previous method.
What are we going to do?
We're going to first take the transaction object
and create a new instance for it.
And then we're going to say transaction.setAccNumber
will be set.getInt and the column is acc_number.
Then we have transaction.set, what else?
Amount; so we'll say set.get, this is double,
so let's do that.
Up next is set transaction date.
The date in the database is of the java.sql type,
and the date field that we have chosen in our bean
is java.util, so we need to convert
java.sql date to java.util date.
How do you do that?
You just take the date util constructor.
To this, you first fill the incoming value from
the column, so that will be set.getDate.
Specify the column name, which in our case is
basically transaction_date.
Once we do this, we just have to call getTime.
So that's how you convert the java.sql date
to your java.util date.
Then let's go next and also set the other fields.
Transaction.setTxId.
Identifier, that will be again Int,
and that column is tx_id.
The last is transaction.set, what else remains?
Transaction type.
So that will be String,
and we're going to have the column as
transaction_type.
Again, so this is all about your SQL exceptions
coming into picture, the arrows that you see,
so we'll quickly handle them using
the try-catch block also.
The objects that you need at the top level,
cut them out, lines number 62 and 63.
Cutting them off and pasting them at line number 60.
The last thing that we have to do is
on line number 79, we'll just return those transactions.
So we have our two methods.
One is to retrieve all the bank accounts,
fill each of the rows into the account object,
create a list, and return that list.
And the second method is for the transactions
for every bank account; get a list of transactions.
So for every row, create a transaction object
and then return that transactions list.
Next steps in the next video.